---
layout: ../../layouts/Writing.astro
title: 'June 27'
pubDate: 2022-07-08
description: Heaven in the Every Day
---

Pripyat, by Marina Herlop:

https://marinaherlop.bandcamp.com/album/pripyat

It’s sprinkling outside and I made my way to 85 Quay. I’m reflecting on the journey, as always.

“Heaven in the every day.”

Two days ago, I was granted the chance to check out AmericaOS , a new project by dear friend Keaton Ventura . Using America, I set out in a black sport utility vehicle and began my journey starting off in the middle of Kansas and making my way out eastward.

I was only able to catch a sliver of the experience, having run the simulation on a desktop computer with no speakers attached. There’s a local radio I could have tuned into, a radio I could have connected to others with.

The view from my vehicle’s dashboard mirrors a little bit of the weather I’m experiencing currently:

Screen Shot 2022-07-08 at 11.30.55 AM.png

Today I met with Gordon Brander for lunch and talked a little bit about each of our respective lines of work, areas of research, realms of exploration. Like always, it was a great moment putting a physical face to a digital effusion. Mapping self to self, the limb to the published.

Screen Shot 2022-06-27 at 5.54.22 PM.png

This line of thinking gets me thinking about the literary Tlon: A fairy-tail land, a subsumed space that somehow spills out and slowly begins to fill out the cracks in this world, and quickly begins to cover the surfaces of the world.